part two of how to save the high street
camera store one of the biggest
arguments I've heard is that and again
going back to the last video talked
about how if price is the issue then
everyone would just go to an internet
shop because it's much much cheaper
there and to a point where I the
Jessup's staff which I spoke to they
advised me that they the shop the
company itself actually lost money on
every professional digital SLR camera
which the salt since they're selling
anaconda three and they were selling it
for 3,600 pounds they were actually
losing about 150 pounds per camera that
they sold what they made money on was a
smaller items so in other words the
memory cards the batteries there may be
lens accessories the filters the print
sales and other things in the shop but
in terms of actual having the big
cameras being sold they weren't making
any money and which is a bigger nitra
because they were still more expensive
than unlike some online shops so they're
losing money and they weren't doing the
many sir any favors in terms of making
them look like they were value for money
even though they were losing money while
selling their gear so one of the most
obvious ways that on street high street
stores can make money is through the
sales of their peripherals there are
their smaller items they're there
add-ons but the only way you're going to
sell them is if you have customers
coming in and to get customers coming in
you have to be able to have the gear in
store for people to want to use play
with try out or at least if they are
trying out something like a Nick on d3
this seal staff in the shop can highly
advise them going oh yes is regular
camera whoever here's another camera
which is far more in a better price
bracket for that customer and may
potentially be better for a sail for the
shop as he hears a better camera and oh
what now you're saving all the money on
that camera you can buy a lens here's a
filter kit here's some extra batteries
something like that that way the company
is selling more stock and is potentially
making money rather than selling a
single item and but what is
they still have that single high value a
high-interest item in the shop for
people to use and play with but if you
don't have anything in the shop which is
freely available for people to come in
and test and try then you're not gonna
have people coming in to potentially see
the other stuff which is in the shop one
of the best jobs I've ever been to was
one in Osaka in japan called your
nabashi camera I had a little store tune
that went like that all the time and it
was brilliant because as a photographer
I could go in and they had multiple
lenses on are on a stall out in the
middle the shop that you could just go
along and attach your camera to and have
a feel right and what it wasn't a quick
walk around his on a string or a wire
but it fully worked many times I've been
into Jessup shops or other shops in tone
where there's or I think pc world has
loads of point-and-shoot cameras and all
of them have their batteries don't work
they've all got finger like not even
fingerprints but you let you turn it on
and it's all blurry because it just got
baby snot on the front of it nothing's
been taken care off that stuff has just
been plunked in the shop hoping that
somebody comes in and pleased with it
were half of them have had a bolt put
through them so somebody doesn't steal
it but the same time the bolt has gone
through the battery and it doesn't work
whatsoever so just like what was the
point of that so many times you want to
have stuff which ever sees outs out in
the store for people to try and play
with and the fact is if people know that
it's there then every lunchtime you'd
have camera geeks come along going oh I
want to go and see what it feels like
holding that 105 mill macro lens again
see that you'll get used to the feel of
the wait they may not buy their they may
not buy it then but the fact is you'll
have people coming into the store and
when they're in the store the store
looks busier but you've also got them
going haha bullet oh you do a
printing service I've got some pictures
I can go get it printed in here while
I'm in my lunch hour instead of going I
never I don't know any camera shops I'll
just go print off dropbox but for many
photographers the worst thing is going
into a store where let's see I had the
new camera the Fuji tu xt one has come
out as a thousand-pound SLR SLR like
camera and yet if I going to
my local shop there is a box saying Fuji
xt-1 it's in a glass cabinet I so for me
to get into it I don't have to ask one
of the sales staff we would then have to
unlock it then I'd have to unbox it but
it's in a glass cabinet behind a CL
staff we're standing behind a sales
counter so there's no kind of that
relaxed feeling of just Gwynn have a
look around see what I like have a play
do I like it oh I do oh I really like it
oh wow this but I've got to buy this now
brilliant hello can i buy this it's more
the walk around see nothing's out on the
show for me to play with right not
feeling very comfortable in here gotta
walk out one of the biggest advice would
be have stuff out on shore on display
and for people to play with with
batteries at work and spare customer
services where they can actually explain
to anybody going you know how does this
actually work in sibley or um I don't
know the menu settings for a nikon
camera because i'll just use canon
that's going to be no use for a new
blitz coming in but what would be
helpful if somebody's saying yes here's
a very good camera here's one more in
your price range with similar functions
and better and certain things or whatnot
so that's where a physical store having
sales staff can direct the people to
more appropriate gear that they should
be having which may potentially create
more port profit for the shop as well